what if we were born from the
ashes of our dead parents creepy
right
the last house some planets
could be born
hi there are mean o Neill space
producer for Discovery News and
I wanted to address that kid
question all parents tread
where do babies come from well I
don't have to answer questions
on either parent or biologist
but I can answer where baby
planets come from planetary
formation theories kind of a
logical sense starting with the
nebula containing hydrogen and
dust a club may form inside the
stellar nursery undergoes
gravitational collapse our some
was spawned inside such a cloud
where in 4.6 billion years ago
forcing a chain reaction of
spark fusion creating a soda
core while I n sun valley burned
putting in more and more
materials a bolt up a dusty disc
became compressed spinning
around the young stars axis of
rotation as time went on this
dis knows a protoplanetary disk
cooled and small dust grains
starts to clump together over
hundreds of millions of years
these dusty clubs became bigger
and bigger exerting a growing
gravitational pull
attracting even more dust these
clamps attached two more clubs
forming small rocky objects
called asteroids asteroids
collided clumps and grew and
eventually form proto planets
otherwise known as baby planets
these proto planets kept growing
eventually settling into their
current stable orbits in the
solar systems planets so earth
started out as a part of the
spinning disk then a clump of
dust been a bigger clump of
rocks followed by proto planet
and eventually the planets we
know and love today
this is all well and good in
theory but it's been hard for
astronomers to observe these
processes around other stars but
that was until the european
southern observatory is at a
common Large
millimeter/submillimeter Array
also known as armored spider
protoplanetary disk surrounding
a star called HL Tauri in 2014
at the time this image was
called revolutionary by
astronomers as it was the
clearest view yet of the tracks
or gaps carved out by baby
plants around a very young star
in 1 million years old but these
gaps didn't necessarily prove
that they were formed by unseen
protoplanets it was only
indirect evidence then
gravitationally vacuuming up the
dusty debris
so there's a chance these track
could of being just empty
regions but if they aren't empty
regions this with me to be the
first evidence
of a young star birthing baby
planets now astronomers using
the Very Large Array in New
Mexico
view the same star at longer
wavelengths and is directly see
material clumping inside one of
these gaps and they've estimated
this club composed of one
centimeter white grains ways in
it between three to eight times
the mass of the Earth which
gives us a hint about how big
the future planet might be if it
is indeed a planet that fuzzy
blob is basically the
gravitational agglomeration of
small pebbles getting corral to
form larger and larger clumps
that would go on to form a
planet and that ladies and
gentlemen are where baby planets
come from
there is however some weirdness
which is sometimes the case in
astronomy in another study
published earlier this month
dying stars may also be able to
give birth the planet
yeah dying stars giving birth
the planets kind of weird using
the ESO Very Large Telescope
interferometer or VLT I this is
located in the Atacama Desert in
Chile a dusty disc produced by a
sun-like star was also image
however this was no young star
is a dying stars run out of fuel
and puffed up into a red giant
and a sporting a protoplanetary
like disk
yes it looks like even dying
stars could produce baby plants
like a young star cousins for
more the cool science about why
stuff in the universe is always
spinning check out traces of
space at the news video is the
clouds of gas moved an undulated
through the universe some of
them were denser and some were
thinner something perhaps a
nearby supernova they think
caused the gases to begin to
coalesce and as the gravity of
these particles increased they
began to fall toward each other
and to spin
do you have any other awkward
space questions you may need
answers to let us know in the
comments below and don't forget
to like this video and subscribe
for a new episode of dnews every
day of the week